if you are absolutely over the Instagram
algorithm and you are so annoyed by the
constant up and down roller coaster
where it's more down than up and your
views are just in the trash you're in
the right place because today I'm going
to share with you exactly how to get
more views on your reels and this is
coming from our own internal research
the data that we are able to collect
from our over 40,000 insta Club Hub
members and most importantly of all
Instagram's CEO himself has spilled bu
the beans on how the algorithm
Works Instagram CEO Adam moseri has
recently put out a reel of his own
explaining how ranking Works ranking is
a fancy term that they use at Instagram
that basically means how they decide
what video shows up where to say it
another way the best ranking content
shows up first the second best ranking
content shows up second so on and so
forth and when you think about that
there are so many different areas to
consume content on Instagram be it the
home feed the reals page the explore tab
or stories making sure that your content
is ranking at the top is really the only
way that you can get views nowadays it
is increasingly tough with more content
creators more business owners and better
content out there it's tougher than ever
before to get views on Instagram so
understanding how the algorithm actually
works is key it is absolutely essential
for beating the algorithm and thus
growing on Instagram the first key
metric the general most important metric
for your Reals in order to get more
views is what Instagram calls view rate
view rate is basically the percentage of
your video that someone completes
watching so let's use Simple Math here
if you have a 10-second video and the
average person watches 6 seconds of that
video then you have a 60% watch rate the
greater your watch rate the more likely
Instagram is to push your reel out to
more people now immediately there's
already some clues that we can pull out
of this single statistic that will
inform how we can get more views on
Instagram Adam moseri in this post and a
few other official Instagram accounts
since this post has been put out have
confirmed that there is a difference
between view rate and watch time or
watch duration watch duration or watch
time is just the total amount of time
that someone watches view rate is the
percentage of completion so if you post
a 3 minute reel and someone only watches
6 seconds or you post a 10-second reel
and someone watches 6 seconds the video
that was shorter is better it's going to
be pushed out to more people because it
has a better view rate the 10-second
video that people are watching for 6
seconds has a 60% view rate while the 3
minute video that people are only
watching for 6 seconds has about a 3%
view rate so that tells us that yes
generally speaking shorter is is better
but that doesn't mean that you should
make all of your videos 10 seconds long
or all of your videos 6 seconds long it
simply means and we'll get into this in
just a moment when I talk to you about
some more of the best practices and
mistakes to evolve it simply means that
if your video can be shorter make it
shorter don't intentionally make your
video longer just for the sake of making
it longer try to be as concise as
possible so that you can increase your
view rate but again that's more of the
general overarching best form of
Engagement in order to get more views
but something that was very interesting
that Adam moseri shared in his recent
update is that there are actually two
different kinds of Engagement that will
determine whether you get more views
from followers or you get more views
from non-followers let's talk about
getting more views from your followers
first and before we even talk about how
to achieve that why and when would you
want to achieve that let's say you were
making a sales related post that is the
type of post that you would want to
reach more followers right because a
follower is more likely to become a
customer than someone who's never met
you before a warm audience is more
likely to become a lead than a
completely cold audience also you would
want to reach more of your followers if
you're making more of a personal post a
post that is more sentimental to you or
that is more a reflection of your values
or your interests and your hobbies and
it wouldn't really make sense to tell a
stranger about your interests and your
hobbies you'd rather tell someone who
has already decided to follow follow you
so if you want to reach more of your
followers according to Instagram's CEO
and according to our own internal
research the best form of Engagement to
receive is a like the more likes you get
the more views you will get to your
existing followers fortunately for all
of us likes are also the easiest kind of
Engagement to get on Instagram it's much
easier for someone to just double tap
and like your post than it is to save or
comment or share with a friend so later
on I'm going to talk to you about how
you can actually get more likes but the
basic thing you need to know is if you
want to reach more of your followers you
should be aiming to increase your likes
now let's talk about reaching
non-followers reaching the people who
don't already follow you the people who
maybe have never seen your content
before why would you want to reach those
people well obviously you want to reach
those people so that you can grow if
you're reaching only your existing
followers it's going to be really tough
to grow because someone can't double
follow you so if we want to grow if your
goal is to cast a wider net bring more
eyeballs to your business more traction
to your page then you want to of course
reach nonf followers non-f follower
related posts are great of course for
growing your following and thus
increasing the leads that you can
generate from Instagram if you want to
reach non-followers the best form of
Engagement and we've been talking about
this for years here at build your tribe
is shares getting more shares on your
post will directly lead to reaching more
people it will do this because number
one of course that's how a share works
when someone shares a post with a friend
the friend receives the post and if the
friend doesn't already follow you then
of course that's a plus one to the non-f
follower reach so shares of course that
make sense how they work but also
algorithmically speaking when you get
more shares the algorithm thinks oh this
would be a great post for non-followers
to see so they push it out to
non-followers I personally did a very
interesting experiment back in the
summer of 2024 where I asked people to
share my post with myself so rather than
sending it to a friend rather than
sending it to a non-f follower I just
had them send it to me I'm doing an
Instagram experiment and I need your
help Shares are the best form of
engagement on Instagram but here's what
I'm wondering do shares get more views
because of the algorithm or because of
the shares themselves so to test this
here's what I need you to do send this
post right here to me just tap on the
paper airplane button and then tap reply
to Brock Johnson and then just press
send to incentivize your participation
in this experiment I'll be picking one
person who sends this post to me to get
a free profile review and of course once
this experiment is over I'll report back
with my findings so please help me out
by sharing this post with me so
basically with this experiment we knew
that the post wasn't going to be
reaching a ton of people because of the
share right like the post wasn't being
sent to a bunch of people it was really
just testing to see hey if this post
gets a lot of shares regardless of who
the share is going to will the post be
pushed out to more people that post
ended up going viral reaching millions
of people and again it wasn't shared
with millions of people it was shared
with myself tens of thousands of times
the algorithm thus deemed it a post
worthy of reaching non-followers and to
this day I'm still getting people seeing
that post following me from it and yes
even sharing the post with me so just to
repeat myself and make sure that we are
clear if you want to reach more
followers get more likes and if you want
to reach more non-followers get more
shares now with all of that being said I
wish the next thing that I could do is
climb through your phone or your
computer wherever you're watching or
listening to this and like scroll
through your reels and look at them and
give you feedback that would be awesome
but that's something that we can only do
in the insta clubhub that's something we
actually do every single month for our
insta clubhub members but I can't do
that for you as a podcast listener so
here's what I'm going to do I'm going to
give you the next best thing which is
I'm going to share with you the nine
biggest mistakes people are making that
are hurting them from getting more likes
getting more shares or increasing their
view rate and these nine mistakes that
I'm about to share with you I want you
to use them to grade your own content
and be a harsh judge a harsh critic of
your content before we even get into the
mistakes mistake number zero I guess is
that people often times are critics and
judges and harsh judges of their content
before they press post and so you never
end up PR pressing post or you're
constantly frustrated and overwhelmed
and on the edge of burning out and
second guessing yourself because you're
judging your content before you put it
out into the world that's a huge no no
just press post and then based off how
it performs you can learn from it you
can get 1% better with each post I'm a
firm believer that yes great content is
ultimately how you're going to grow on
Instagram great content is how you're
going to reach more people but how do we
make great content we practice to say it
another way how how do we achieve
quality quantity we continue posting and
we learn from each post rather than
kicking ourselves while we're down and
getting upset with ourselves or with the
algorithm for not giving us enough views
what can you learn from this post that
you just made key part of that sentence
that you just made only judge your posts
once they have been made but with that
being said here are the nine criteria
that you can use to judge your posts in
order to hopefully improve them and thus
increase your view rate your likes and
your shares all right number one we've
kind of talked about this one already
but a big mistake I see a lot of people
making is that your reels are just far
too long how long should your reels be
is of course the question that you're
asking next and my answer might make you
laugh but it also is not going to be
necessarily what you're hoping to hear
my answer is that there is no Universal
best length for some of us we're going
to have success with 2minute long reels
some of us are going to have success
with 14 second reels every audience is
different but the key tip I want you to
remember here is What's called the mini
skirt rule the miniskirt rule is a great
rule that was named by one of our insta
clubbers and it is as follows your reel
should be long enough to cover the
important bits but short enough to hold
attention basically it should be long
enough to cover whatever it is you want
to cover to talk about whatever it is
you want to talk about to share whatever
tip or story or value that you intend on
sharing and no longer just long enough
to cover the important bits and no
longer than that so that means that for
some of us you're going to need 37
seconds to fully tell your story and get
your point across if that's how long you
need take it I don't want you to say uh
well this story or this tip or this
education would have taken me 37 seconds
but Brock said it has to be 17 no it
needs to be as long as it has to be and
no longer but the mistake I see a lot of
people making is having run on sentences
they're kind of babbling they're losing
track they're redundant we're going to
talk about some more of these mistakes
later on but in general try to tighten
up your real even once you're done
filming when you're in the editing stage
think could this sentence be removed is
this sentence absolutely necessary for
understanding what I'm trying to share
is this phrase is this important is this
word is it necessary to be included in
the real and if not edit it out and I
think right now would be a perfect time
to mention something that I'm a huge fan
of something that we always teach here
at build your tribe and something that
we Hammer home to our insta clubhub
members and that is that you should be
constantly upcycling your content
upcycling is a term that we use to
describe reposting or recreating your
content reposting meaning taking
something from the past and posting it
again if it did well 90 days ago post it
a second time same captions same
everything don't change a thing post it
a second time time and it will likely do
well the second time or refresh SL
recreate the post to use this mistake
and apply it here if the Reel that you
posted a few months ago looking back at
it it was just a little too long a
little too wordy a little too redundant
you could have trimmed out and made your
skirt a little bit shorter take that
same post from I don't know back in
October of 2024 and just cut it up a
little bit trim out some parts make it a
little bit shorter and more concise and
post it a second time that way you can
increase your output without having to
significantly change your input or spend
a lot of more time energy and effort on
the creation side you've already done
the work let's just chop it up and post
it again mistake number two is similar
but slightly different and it's not
having enough Cuts there's this rule in
TV and Cinema called the 3 second rule
and this rule is essentially that you
should have some sort of cut or change
or transition every 3 seconds you might
have noticed at at the beginning of this
YouTube video there was lots going on
right by this part of the video it's
slowed down a little bit we're not
necessarily following the 3se second
rule right now but at the very beginning
the hook the most important part of this
YouTube video there were lots of cuts
lots of changes lots of effects lots of
Transitions and that's to keep you
engaged in the hook in your reals the
same principle applies there should be
some sort of cut or change or effect or
transition or new scene every two to 3
seconds and again I know that you're
thinking that's crazy that's so fast
that's so many cuts and edits the next
time you're watching TV or a movie pay
attention and I bet you'll notice that
the same is true there as well the next
time you're watching Netflix count out
loud and I bet you'll be able to notice
that every two or 3 seconds there's some
sort of scene change or cut or
transition one easy way that you can
apply this to your reels specifically if
you are doing a talking head reel is to
film each sentence of your talking head
reel in a new location so rather than
setting up your phone on a tripod and
talking for 60 seconds straight which is
very tough to do and remember like
everything you wanted to say and stay on
script and not be redundant or not
fumble over your words like that's tough
even for me what I would recommend doing
is just record one sentence at a time
record your hook in your kitchen record
the second sentence in your bedroom
record the third sentence outside your
front door just changing scenery like
that even if it's still you in the same
outfit holding the phone with your right
hand just the fact that there is a cut
and a transition every two or 3 seconds
it will help keep your viewers engaged
for longer which remember that will help
increase your view rate which will help
you get more views in general now a
moment ago I talked to you about the
beginning of this YouTube video and how
there was lots of cuts and Transitions
and changes and that's because the Hook
is so important well guess what one of
the biggest mistakes the third biggest
mistake that I see people making with
their reels and this probably should be
number one I think this is the biggest
mistake of all is just boring hooks bad
hooks or not having a hook at all in
fact I believe that the majority of your
time energy and effort should be placed
on those first 3 seconds of your video
the stronger your hook can be the better
now down in the show notes below this
episode I'll put a link to 25 viral
hooks that we have collected for you
basically we went through over a
thousand Instagram reals and Tik Tok
videos and we just pulled out the hooks
from every single one of those videos
and then we tallied how many times we
heard the same hook over and over again
and we put them in order for you with
the top 25 most viral hooks so go ahead
download that totally free but one of
the biggest tips that I can give you for
your hooks is rather than doing a
generic three tips for losing weight get
specific and include your story Into the
hook such as when I eliminated these
three things from my diet I finally
broke through the plateau and lost 15
lounds the second video really makes you
want to watch the second video makes you
interested and it gives you a little
window into who I am my journey my
experience my expertise the first video
was
like not that interesting kind of
generic the second video the second hook
I should say is way more engaging and
way more captivating so rather than
using the generic hooks from 2021 start
incorporating your own experiences and
storytelling Into Your Hooks which then
will make them more engaging which will
increase the likelihood that people keep
watching thus increasing your view rate
thus increasing your views in general
and again remember our strategy of
upcycling you can take any video that
you posted in the past let's say you
posted a great workout routine for rock
climbers and in the past you used the
hook three exercise is for rock climbers
you could use the exact same video like
second three through whenever the video
ended and just replace the hook I call
it my hook swap strategy take a video
from the past and replace it with a new
hook and Bam you basically got a new
reel a brand new piece of content with a
stronger hook so that's mistake number
three mistake number four is super
common and it's also super easy to fix
it's simply not having closed captions
on your videos the majority of people
who watch real and consume content on
Instagram are watching on mute so if you
don't have closed captions it's so much
harder for them to watch and engage now
you can use outside apps like inshot
like cap cut or like captions to add
more Dynamic closed captions that like
fly on the screen and have little
effects to them and have like certain
words in bold and whatnot that is
definitely a way to take your reels up
to the next level but at a bare minimum
use the captions sticker on Instagram to
add closed captions to your videos all
right so that should be a simple fix
that's mistake number four mistake
number five is either not having b-roll
in your video and this is specifically
for those of you who are doing like
talking head videos if you're doing a
talking head video it shouldn't just be
your face talking to the camera the
entire time ideally we would have some
sort of secondary video if you're
talking about the perfect form for doing
a push-up you shouldn't just be talking
about it we should see the perfect form
we should see the bad form we should be
able to stay engaged with What's called
b-roll the other related mistake that I
see people making is for those of you
who do b-roll reels the type of reel
where there's you know text on the
screen and then there's a video in the
background and it's simply that the
video in the background is either not
related to what you're talking about
like it's not related to the text on the
screen or it's just not interesting I've
seen people do you know tips for making
passive income at home for mom's over 35
and there's like some text on the screen
but then the background video isn't a
mom over 35 it is like a pretty sunset
that's okay but it's not really related
it's not interesting it's not engaging
right so if you're doing talking head
videos incorporate b-roll and if you're
doing b-roll reels make sure that the
b-roll relates to whatever it is that
your real is about the sixth mistake
that I see people making is either not
having a call to action which I'm going
to stop right here every single post you
make should have a call to action a call
to action is essentially telling your
audience what you want them to do so
that's the first mistake another mistake
cuz a lot of you are familiar with that
a lot of you are like yeah Brock I know
I got a call to action is your calls to
action are either generic simple or
confusing some of you are using
multi-action call to actions it's a call
to action not a call to actions with an
S so instead of being like like this
real and don't forget to share it with a
friend and save it for later and follow
for more like don't give people multiple
things give them one thing to do
what I usually recommend to our insta
clubbers is to watch your real and then
ask yourself what is someone most likely
to do when they watch this reel if the
Reel is educational what are they most
likely to do I feel like Dora right now
yeah what they're most likely to do is
save it if it's a super funny relatable
reel what are they most likely to do
yeah like it or maybe share it with a
friend if it's a reel that's like
controversial and is talking about an
opinion and asking people for their
thoughts what are people most likely to
do comment yeah exactly so ask people
for the action that they are most likely
to do and then one way to make your
calls to action stronger is instead of
just asking for an action for example
like this post give them a reason like
this post if you found it valuable share
this post if you can relate to it save
this post so you can refer to it later
give them a reason in addition to the
action mistake number seven is bad audio
bad lighting or bad formatting you don't
need to invest in like a professional
mic or like fancy camera and lighting
equipment like I have right now your
phone is good enough but some Pro tips
especially for my ladies out there if
you got you know some makeup smudges or
some oil smudges on your camera lens
just clean off your camera lens speaking
of use the back camera instead of the
front camera it's better quality make
sure that when you're holding your phone
you don't have your pinky down here
covering up the microphone it's a very
common mistake I see people making and
then for lighting just stand near a
window cloudy days are actually some of
the best days because it creates kind of
a uniform lighting not a harsh bright
spot light stand near a window and
you're good to go make sure that your
audio is crisp and clean and easy to
understand and then when it comes to
formatting one of the big mistakes that
I see people making is having like
borders on their reels like there's a
big black chunk at the top or at the
bottom or their reels like kind of
zoomed out and like kind of squished in
don't do that make sure that your video
takes makes up the entire screen zoom it
in if you have to refilm it if you have
to don't ever post a horizontal video as
a real make sure that there are no
borders so it's formatted correctly
mistake number eight and this one is
something that is kind of controversial
because on one hand this is something
I'm calling a mistake but it works it
works it will definitely doing this will
get you more views it will get you maybe
more reach it might help you go viral
but on the other hand it it's probably
going to annoy the majority of your
followers and it's probably not going to
work for very long what I'm referring to
is any kind of gimmick or clickbait a
gimmick is something that works today
and is gone tomorrow it's kind of like
tricking the algorithm or hacking the
algorithm it's the type of thing like a
1second reel that's a gimmick it's a
reel that's playing over and over again
so you're like my view rate is going to
go through the roof it might go through
the roof but it's going to really annoy
your followers if they're watching a 1
second video over and over again so yes
it might reach more people but like what
is that doing in the long run that's not
a very ethical way to do business that's
not a very sustainable way to grow a
following on social media annoying your
followers in exchange for pleasing the
algorithm is not something I would
recommend so don't do any of the
gimmicks whatever they are there's
always new ones coming out and then
clickbait clickbait is a sensationalized
hook that is ultimately a lie it's
untrue it's a fabrication it's the
person who who's like here's how to make
$35,000 in one night without having to
lift a finger that's clickbait let's not
do that and then one more thing that
I'll lump into this category is the read
the caption reels where it usually has
like a clickbait hook or clickbait text
on it and then it just says read the
caption and then like maybe the caption
answers the question but the caption is
probably just like selling you some
course or something don't do that it's a
gimmick it's click baity it might work
but it's it's not sustainable it's not
longterm it's not ethical and then
number nine last but not least it kind
of relates back to number one about
being too long or number two about not
having enough cuts and it's just in
general dead air Dead Space the
millennial pause using filler words
being redundant anything like that again
with this idea of making your real as
tight and concise and succinct as
possible you don't want to do what I
just did tight and concise and succinct
those three words mean the same thing I
can say them to you here because you've
committed to watching a long form piece
of content like a YouTube video or a
podcast but if you were watching a real
I would recommend saying just one of
those three words so you can be as
concise and succinct as possible so
really try to eliminate the filler
eliminate the dead air dead air is the
pauses the ums the S the Oz the
millennial pause some of you are
familiar with it's how the first second
of your video and Millennials I'm a
millennial myself we're guilty of this
we
go and there's like that 1 second pause
at the beginning of the video just trim
that off make sure to remove that it
will help keep people engaged it will
help increase your view rate your likes
and your shares which will help you
reach more people and grow your
following I want to say thank you so
much for listening today definitely
check out some of the past episodes
we've put out on build your tribe we did
an entire episode about how to get more
shares and how to create share worthy
content so you can actually reach more
non followers we'll link that up in the
show notes below don't forget to
subscribe so that our new episodes which
come out every Thursday that those
automatically show up in your inbox and
I will see you next week as always happy
networking